# README

**Data-Format:** 

All pickle-files are numpy-arrays with the shape 100x35040  (except 100x35136 for leap-years). 

The 100-dimension represents the ZIP code regions, where non-existing regions have been filled with zeros.

The 35040-dimension represents the 15-minute intervals in the year.

The unit of all 15-minute-means is kW. Please do a Plausibility-Check by summing up the array and compare with the table below or energy-charts.de  (<https://energy-charts.info/charts/energy/chart.htm>)

**Processings:** 

Wind power data is missing for several postal code regions. The data is added/completed via different algorithms such as neighbor averaging, neighbor averaging with weights = borderlengths,  neighbor averaging with weights = 1/distance of center points, neighbor averaging with weights = borderlengths/distance of center points.  

The places mentioned in the data for Nordsee and Ostsee are located into their respective correct postal code regions. 

**Contact person:**

Yannik Schädler (y.schaedler@bimaq.de)

Ahmed Salman (mas@bimaq.de)

**Total Energy Generated (according to our data):** 

|      Type     | Total Energy Generated (TWh) |
| :-----------: | :--------------------------: |
|  Wind onshore |              81              |
| Wind offshore |              19              |
|     Water     |              23              |
|     Solar     |              41              |
|     Biogas    |              38              |
|    Nuclear    |              66              |
|      Oil      |               3              |
|   Hard coal   |              42              |
|   Brown coal  |              97              |
|     Demand    |            490.52            |

**Wind Power Completion Statistics:**

Total observed _onshore _ wind energy generated = 2.55 TWh (in simple language this is the raw data I got from the main database)

_Total onshore wind energy generated after completion and scaling up = 88 TWh    _

So this means I scaled up around 1.9% of the data to a 100%. This scaling up includes both the completion of the many postal code areas that we did not have any data for (using the 3 cycle neighbor averaging method) and it also includes how I scaled up all the observed power from each of the 95 regions using the total installed powers in those regions. 

**Source of the data (in the CSV-Files-Folder):** 

winddaten_export_25082020.csv

ts_biogas_2019.csv (from biogas_202102.zip in Geowisol-2_files)

UeNB_LastVerteilung_Einwohner_2019_v02.csv

Fossil_Brown_coal_2015_2019

Fossil_Hard_coal_2015_2019.csv

Fossil_Oil_2015_2019.csv

Nuclear_2015_2019.csv

zwischenergebnis_energy_meteo and updatePV_2019_2020

Laufwasser_Einordnung_2019

Pumpspeicher_PB_Einordnung_2019

Pumpspeicher_TB_Einordnung_2019

zwischenergebnis_SOW and Einspeisung nach NVP Nordsee and Einspeisung nach NVP Ostsee

**Note about wind and solar power pickle file** **versions:**

The wind and solar power pickles are labelled as \_vxx where the xx represent the version number of the pickle file.

The version v01 is the wind and solar powers that are generated by using the installed powers from _Marktstammdatenregister_ _(MSDR)_ to scale up the observed wind and solar powers.

The version v02 is the wind and solar powers that are generated by using the installed powers from _Netztransparenz_ to scale up the observed wind and solar powers.

The incomplete wind powers have been uploaded on the Geowisol-2 daten folder as two pickles for each year.

So for year 2019 we have

---

**1. wind_onshore_power_raw_incomplete_data_2019.pickle**

This are the values written in the big csv dump. These values are NOT normalized. I have just copied the values in the big csv into several pickle files for each year.

Of course the postal code labeling in the csv files like 0301 and 0302 has been taken care of.

---

**2. wind_incomplete_kw_2019.pickle**

These values are normalized with respect to the maximum wind power value in that region and then scaled up with the installed wind powers from netztransparenz (Rasmus). Of course these have many postal codes that we do not have data for and all of those are just zeros.
